Songbook frequently asked questions.

[[!toc ]]

## What is the songbook?

It is a pdf file gathering several songs into a pleasant view so that you can easily read and play them with your own guitar.
The songbook is generated from a set of simple text files containing lyrics and tabs thanks to LaTeX.

## Why use LaTeX?

Previous and non-released versions were made from common text process softwares. The fact is that LaTeX is the only
way to keep a coherent pdf file, regardless of the number of songs you decide to include.
As LaTeX differenciate content and layout, you can easily build a songbook of your convenience with the songs you decide
or with different layouts without any modification of the original text file corresponding to the song.

## Different layouts?

There are 3 major releases of the songbook. 
* a version with guitar tabs: the chordbook
* a more compact version restricted to lyrics only: the lyricbook
* a version with a few sheets (solos for example) providing melodic lines: the lilypondbook (Lilypond is the software producing the sheets) 

## Can I propose my own song?

Yes please do. Emails and/or forum posts are welcomed!

## Can I suggest a song?

Yes the bug tracker is the right place to do so.

## Where did you find the latex style used to produce the books?

We use a slighlty modified version of the [Songs](http://songs.sourceforge.net/) project.

## What is the licence of this software?

All pieces of software including Makefile, index scripts and latex style are distribued under the GPL2 licence. 

## What is the licence of the songs files?

Song files transcribe copyrighted material. The transcription is the result of our own work. We believe that the non-commercial use of this work is fair. Copyright holders wanting us to remove songs from beeing distributed have simply to formulate their demand by email at <alexandre.dupas@gmail.com> or <crep@team-on-fire.com>.
